---
slug: uploading-customers-to-sage-one
redirect_from: "/article/820-upload-customers"
title: Uploading Customers to Sage One
---
The Import Customers task will create new and update existing customers in Sage One. The customer data must be provided in the [Sage One Customer XML](sage-one-customer-xml) format.

## Settings
### Sage One Connection
_Required_  
The connection to Sage One to use. See [Connecting to Sage One](connecting-to-sage-one) if you require more information on how to create/manage connections.

### Auto Generate References
_Required_  

 * **Alphabetic Length**  - Used when auto generating account references. Controls the number of alphabetic characters to use in the generated account reference (e.g. 3 may produce an account reference starting with ABC) 
 * **Auto Generate References** - Set this to True to have the task auto-create an account reference if one is not provided in the input file, or an account reference is not found in the truth table based on the external_id. Set to False to prevent new account references being generated automatically. 
 * **Mask** - This will prefix any account reference generated by Zynk, for example, if the account reference was 'INT001' and the mask was 'Z-' the account reference would be set to 'Z-INT001' in Sage. Wild cards can be used to insert characters at certain positions in the account reference. For example, the mask ???-??? may produce the account reference 'INT-001'. 
 * **Numeric Length** - Used when auto generating account references. Controls the number of numeric characters to use in the generated account reference (e.g. 3 may produce an account reference ending in 001)  
 * **Reference Convention** - Used when auto generating account references. Select a method for generating the alphabetic part of the account reference. The following options are available:
   * CompanyOtherwiseMainContactName - The company name will be used if provided, otherwise the main contact name.
   * MainContactNameOtherwiseCompany - The main contact name will be used if provided, otherwise the company name.

### Fail File
_Required_  
The name of a file for "failed" imports to be sent to.

### Input File
_Required_  
The source file that you want to import in Zynk XML format.

### Success File
_Required_  
The name of a file for "successful" imports to be sent to.

### Prevent Reprocessing
_Required_  
Set to true to prevent the same record being processed more than once. This will only work where an `external_id` is provided for a record in the input XML file.

### Zynk Settings
See [Common Task Settings](common-task-settings).

## Example
A sample input file is shown below. See [Sage One Customer XML](sage-one-customer-xml) for full documentation of the XML format.
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<sage_one_company xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema">
  <customers>
    <customer>
      <reference>ZYNK0001</reference>
      <name>Zynk Software</name>
      <main_address>
        <address_type_id>DELIVERY</address_type_id>
        <name>Main Address</name>
        <country_group>
          <id>GBIE</id>
        </country_group>
        <address_line_1>Zynk Software</address_line_1>
        <address_line_2>6-8 Charlotte Square</address_line_2>
        <city>Newcastle upon Type</city>
        <region>Tyne &amp; Wear</region>
        <postal_code>NE1 4XF</postal_code>
        <country>
          <id>GB</id>
        </country>
        <is_main_address>true</is_main_address>
      </main_address>
      <product_sales_price_type>
        <name>Sales Price</name>
      </product_sales_price_type>
      <default_sales_ledger_account>
        <nominal_code>4000</nominal_code>
      </default_sales_ledger_account>
      <default_sales_tax_rate>
        <id>GB_STANDARD</id>
      </default_sales_tax_rate>
      <tax_number>GB12345678</tax_number>
    </customer>
  </customers>
</sage_one_company>
```
 