---
slug: xslt-transform
redirect_from: "/article/360-xslt-transform"
title: XSLT Transform
---
The XSLT Transform task accepts an XML input file and transforms it to another format using an XSL transform file. XSL transforms can be used used to convert an XML file to another XML format, HTML, CSV, plain text and many more formats. You can pass through parameters to the XSLT at runtime if your XSLT file supports parameterised inputs. Please note that the task only supports XSLT 1.0, it does not support XSLT 2.0.

A basic tutorial for writing XSL transforms can be found [here](create-an-xslt-file), and more detailed information can be found at [W3 Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/xsl_transformation.asp). You can find sample XSLT files in our [Github repository](https://github.com/internetware/zynk-samples/tree/master/XSLT%20Samples).

## Settings
### Input File
_Required_  
The name of the XML file for processing.

### Log File
_Optional_  
The file to write any messages generated by the XSLT to. You can generate messages by using the	[xsl:message](https://www.w3schools.com/xml/ref_xsl_el_message.asp) element in your XSLT. If you don't provide a log file, messages will still be written as debug messages to the logs in Zynk (if debug logging is enabled).

### Output File
_Required_  
The name of the resulting processed file.

### Parameters
_Optional_  
A collection of parameters to be passed into the XSLT for processing. This is typically used for user defined data such as Company Name and Address when using a common XSLT file such as an Invoice.xslt.  

### XSLT File
_Required_  
The name of the XSLT file to use for processing.

### Zynk Settings
See [Common Task Settings](common-task-settings)

## Examples
A sample input file is shown below, which is to be converted to another XML format.

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<Company xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
    <StockTransactions>
        <StockTransaction>
            <UniqueId>1</UniqueId>
            <StockTransactionType>AdjustmentIn</StockTransactionType>
            <StockCode>BOARD001</StockCode>
            <StockTransactionDate>2006-12-31T00:00:00</StockTransactionDate>
            <Reference>STK TAKE</Reference>
            <Details>Whiteboard - Drywipe (900 x 1200)</Details>
            <Qty>2</Qty>
            <CostPrice>15</CostPrice>
            <SalesPrice>0</SalesPrice>
            <StockTransactionNumber>1</StockTransactionNumber>
        </StockTransaction>
    </StockTransactions>
</Company>
```

A sample XSLT file is shown below, which will be used to transform the input file.

```xml
<xsl:stylesheet version="1.0" xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform">

    <xsl:output method="xml" indent="yes" />

    <xsl:template match="/">
        <Rows>
            <xsl:for-each select="Company/StockTransactions/StockTransaction">
                <xsl:call-template name="ProcessRow" />
            </xsl:for-each>
        </Rows>
    </xsl:template>

    <xsl:template name="ProcessRow">
        <Row>
            <Code><xsl:value-of select="StockCode" /></Code>
            <Type><xsl:value-of select="StockTransactionType" /></Type>
            <Quantity><xsl:value-of select="Qty" /></Quantity>
            <Cost><xsl:value-of select="CostPrice" /></Cost>
        </Row>
    </xsl:template>
    
</xsl:stylesheet>
```

The output file is shown below:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<Rows>
  <Row>
    <Code>BOARD001</Code>
    <Type>AdjustmentIn</Type>
    <Quantity>2</Quantity>
    <Cost>15</Cost>
  </Row>
</Rows>
```

## Extensions
The following extension objects and methods are provided for use within your XSLT. See below for an example of how to use them.

### Date Functions
Namespace: urn:DateFunctions  
Available Since: Zynk Workflow 2.1.4

#### Date Format
Converts a given string to an XSD date.   
`DateFormat(string dateString)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.

#### Date Format
Converts a given string to a date format of your choice.   
`DateFormat(string dateString, string format)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * format - The format to output the date in. See [Custom Date and Time Format Strings](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/8kb3ddd4(v=vs.110).aspx) for more details.

#### Add Days
Converts a given string to an XSD date, and adds a specified number of days.   
`AddDays(string dateString, double days)`
 
 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * days - The number of days to add/subtract to the date.

#### Add Days
Converts a given string to a date format of your choice, and adds a specified number of days.   
`AddDays(string dateString, double days, string format)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * days - The number of days to add/subtract to the date.
 * format - The format to output the date in. See [Custom Date and Time Format Strings](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/8kb3ddd4(v=vs.110).aspx) for more details.

#### Add Months
Converts a given string to an XSD date, and adds a specified number of months.   
`AddMonths(string dateString, int months)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * months - The number of months to add/subtract to the date.

#### Add Months
Converts a given string to a date format of your choice, and adds a specified number of months.   
`AddMonths(string dateString, int months, string format)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * months - The number of months to add/subtract to the date.
 * format - The format to output the date in. See here for [Custom Date and Time Format Strings](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/8kb3ddd4(v=vs.110).aspx) details.

#### Add Years
Converts a given string to an XSD date, and adds a specified number of years.   
`AddYears(string dateString, int years)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * years - The number of years to add/subtract to the date.

#### Add Years
Converts a given string to a date format of your choice, and adds a specified number of years.   
`AddYears(string dateString, int years, string format)`

 * dateString - The date to convert.
 * years - The number of years to add/subtract to the date.
 * format - The format to output the date in. See [Custom Date and Time Format Strings](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/8kb3ddd4(v=vs.110).aspx) for more details.

### File Functions
Namespace: urn:FileFunctions  
Available Since: Zynk Workflow 2.1.4

#### File Exists
Checks if a given file exists.   
`FileExists(string file)`

* file - The file to check.

#### Valid XML
Checks if a given file exists, and contains valid XML data.   
`ValidXml(string file)`

 * file - The file to check.

### Node Functions
Namespace: urn:NodeFunctions  
Available Since: Zynk Workflow 2.1.4

#### Select
Selects a node based on an XPath expression. Supports dynamically generated XPath expressions.   
`Select(Node node, string xpath)`

 * node - The node to run the XPath expression against. This would typically be the current node '.'
 * xpath - The XPath expression to return the desired node.

### Mapping Functions
Namespace: urn:MappingFunctions  
Available Since: Zynk Workflow 2.1.8

#### Map To
Returns the 'to' value from the specified [Mapping](mappings), based on the specified 'from' value.  
`MapTo(string mappingName, string from)`

 * mappingName - The name of the mapping to use.
 * from - The value to be mapped from

#### Map From
Returns the 'from' value from the specified [Mapping](mappings), based on the specified 'to' value.  
`MapFrom(string mappingName, string to)`

 * mappingName - The name of the mapping to use.
 * to - The value to be mapped to.

### Example Usage
The XSLT below uses the DateFormat method to convert the value of the MyDate node from the input file to another format.

```xml
<xsl:stylesheet version="1.0"
  xmlns:xsl="http://www.w3.org/1999/XSL/Transform"
  xmlns:df="urn:DateFunctions"> <!-- Declare the namespace of the function(s) 
you want to use here -->

    <xsl:template match="/">
        <!-- Call the function within an XPath expression, prefixing the function name 
        with the namespace you've declared followed by a colon -->
        <Date><xsl:value-of select="df:DateFormat(MyDate, 'yyyy-MM-dd_HH:mm:ss')" /></Date>
    </xsl:template>

</xsl:stylesheet>
```
